about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
permalink: /about/
---

<amp-img width="1024" height="648" layout="responsive" src="/assets/images/about.jpeg"></amp-img>
<caption>*Sitting on a rock on Mount Mogan (Moganshan) outside of Shanghai*</caption>

Hello! Thank you for taking the time to learn more about me. I am currently a specialist engineer at Google in San Francisco, working on mobile performance. My job is to consult clients on how to make their mobile websites faster. I perform web audits as well as help developers implement their sites using [AMP](https://www.ampproject.org/), like this very site you are on right now! I'm hoping to use this blog to talk about the problems that I run into, and (hopefully) the solutions for those problems. I'll also write about general programming and web development topics that I find cool.

Once upon a time, I was a student at the University of Oregon where I graduated in 2016. I received my Bachelor's in Computer Science and Mathematics and worked for some amazing groups on campus. I was primarily a math tutor and web developer, but was also a researcher for the [Oregon Network Research Group](https://onrg.cs.uoregon.edu/index.html) run by Professor Reza Rejaie. It was here that I gained most of my experience with computer networks and the internet.

After school, I went to work for the SAS Institute as an analytics consultant. It was interesting work, but I found myself more keen on working with the web, perhaps since I had worked so much with it in school. Whatever the reason, I found myself at my current position at Google.

I like to work with the web. I also like to teach. This blog hopefully accomplishes some sort of an intersection as I find a niche for myself.

I do sincerely hope you eventually find something of value on my blog. Please don't hesistate to reach out via email to discuss or critique.

Commit message:

added meta tags for keywords

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
permalink: /about/
excerpt: Hello! Thank you for taking the time to learn more about me. I am currently a specialist engineer at Google in San Francisco, working on mobile performance.
keywords: AMP, Google, Mobile, Specialist, Engineer, Phillip, Kriegel, philkrie, Oregon, ONRG, About, Blog
---

<amp-img width="1024" height="648" layout="responsive" src="/assets/images/about.jpeg"></amp-img>
<caption>*Sitting on a rock on Mount Mogan (Moganshan) outside of Shanghai*</caption>

Hello! Thank you for taking the time to learn more about me. I am currently a specialist engineer at Google in San Francisco, working on mobile performance. My job is to consult clients on how to make their mobile websites faster. I perform web audits as well as help developers implement their sites using [AMP](https://www.ampproject.org/), like this very site you are on right now! I'm hoping to use this blog to talk about the problems that I run into, and (hopefully) the solutions for those problems. I'll also write about general programming and web development topics that I find cool.

Once upon a time, I was a student at the University of Oregon where I graduated in 2016. I received my Bachelor's in Computer Science and Mathematics and worked for some amazing groups on campus. I was primarily a math tutor and web developer, but was also a researcher for the [Oregon Network Research Group](https://onrg.cs.uoregon.edu/index.html) run by Professor Reza Rejaie. It was here that I gained most of my experience with computer networks and the internet.

After school, I went to work for the SAS Institute as an analytics consultant. It was interesting work, but I found myself more keen on working with the web, perhaps since I had worked so much with it in school. Whatever the reason, I found myself at my current position at Google.

I like to work with the web. I also like to teach. This blog hopefully accomplishes some sort of an intersection as I find a niche for myself.

I do sincerely hope you eventually find something of value on my blog. Please don't hesistate to reach out via email to discuss or critique.
