---
layout: post
title: "AMP Gotcha's: Understanding Why AMP List Can't Access Local Files"
excerpt: The Chrome Coverage tool shows your untouched code, but you want to download the good stuff
keywords: Chrome, chromium, puppeteer, performance, code, coverage, minification, unused, CSS, JS, HTML
---

<amp-img width="290" height="422" layout="fixed" src="/assets/posts/extracting-coverage/puppeteer.png"></amp-img>
<br/>
<caption>*Understanding the amp-list component*</caption>

#### TL;DR: amp-list requires served json from an https endpoint because it wants your page to work anywhere

The amp-list component is a great way to add a dynamic aspect to AMP pages. It is one of the components of AMP that can bring in outside data and render it on load, both when the AMP page is accessed directly and from the AMP cache. With this ability come a few restrictions.

A common gripe developers encounter when first trying out amp-list is the inability to access json that is stored on the file system. You can't simply point the source towards a file sitting next to your AMP file and access it.

The reason this is enforced is fairly simple: you don't know how someone is going to visit your page. If the user comes to your page through a direct link, then you could download some json from your webserver and do as you please. But with AMP, that isn't always the case. If the user sees your page from the Google Search in the AMP Viewer, which is served from Google Search, then you have a problem. The data won't be stored on the cache. You need to be able to download the dynamic information from any context. Hence, you need an endpoint.

The specific error in this scenario is as follows
'''
"source" "must start with "https://" or "//" or be relative and served from either https or from localhost
'''

Okay so what does that mean? That's a lot of 'or's and 'and's.

You basically have 4 options:

1. The source starts with https://
This is where you have an endpoint, and it's secure, so you win. Great work, you must be very proud.
2. The source starts with //
A protocol relative URL. I don't see or use these much anymore, since you basically always want to ensure that you are accessing resources with HTTPS. For those who might not be aware, this accesses the resource using whatever protocol is being used to view the page. So if you visit via HTTP, it will make a request for the json object using HTTP. However, in practice, since you hope to have your page be accessible from the AMP cache, you want your endpoint to recieve HTTPS traffic, since the page will be served from Google, which is secured. This basically devolves to being the same option as #1.
3. The source is relative and is served from https
Probably a common way to serve from your site.
4. The source is relative and served from localhost
Again, obviously for testing, but probably the best option. If you're testing things locally you probably don't want to take the time to set up SSL (interestingly enough this doesn't work with 127.0.0.1, but does with 'localhost' or simply a relative path)

Okay, great. So let's boot up